# Blumenstock Response

Victor Tran

1/28/2020

[Reading](https://www.nature.com/magazine-assets/d41586-018-06215-5/d41586-018-06215-5.pdf)


[Prompt](https://github.com/wicked-problems/workshop/blob/master/blumenstock.md)

  There are several benefits for the application of Data Science in many challenges such as distributing aid and deciding on who to provide loans. Blumenstock mentions that digital maps of poverished regions based on the type of roofing residents have can be used to distribute aid. Additionally, the data created from social media sites can be utilized by credit companies to provide loans and create credit scores. Those who make international phone calls are more likely to pay back their loans so they will be provided more loans. On Facebook, those who have more friends are also more likely to pay back their loans. Through these methods, companies and aid groups are hoping to automate analysis of data to fit their own needs. 
  
  However, there are issues with such a broad approach such as creating unanticipated events, a lack of vaidation, using biased algorithms, and a lack of regulation. Since this is such a new innovation, the consequences of using big data as a subsititute for human experience and intuition is still unknown. Blumenstock mentions that the algorithms that chose to provide people loans ended up giving loans to people who did not need loans and were not financially educated to understand loans and how to pay them off, which will eventually lead to financial hardship. This was not intended and ended up hurting both the borrower, since they did not get back their money and interest and lender, since they are now in unecessary financial hardship.
  
   There is a lack of validation for using Data Science because this is still such a new method. Additionally, Data Science incorporates machine learning which is still considered a black box where a certain input and output may be provided, but what the computer does to interepret the data is still a mystery to the developers. This creates an issue of transparency because even if the data scientist had a gun pointed to their head, they would not be able to truly explain what it is that the machine learning algorithm is doing. In regards, to transparency, data science has significant issues that take significant efforts to overcome which make it a worrisome instrument in society.
 
  The idea of a lack of validation goes hand-in-hand with biased algorithms. Since the developers are not aware of what exact steps the machine learning algorithm is taking to reach its results, we do not know how the machine learning algorithm is interpreting the input data. Maybe some factors are weighed much more heavily than others when they really should not be. Maybe some factors are not even considered at all. It would clearly be an issue if the machine learning algorithm focused a large amount of their decisions based on race or caste. Moreover, there is the issue of overfitting. While the machine learning algorithm may work for one subset of the population, will it work if the scope was enlargened to the entire country? Are there certain factors included in the enlargened dataset which are not accounted for in the machine learning algorithm which may lead to faulty results? Without these questions answered, data science becomes a mighty sword which we may not be ready to wield yet.
  
  Another signficant issue with data science is its lack of regulation. Data science is used everywhere by the public and the private sector. However, they may be using such techniques in an unethical manner. With companies such as Google and Facebook harvesting billions of peoples data without even realizing it, companies are able to utilize significant databases of data to create powerful algorithms. This incentivizes some companies to harvest and sell user data from their apps and phones. In order for people to use services like Google and Facebook, they have to open up their life to prying eyes and allow these companies to sell their personal information to other companies for profit. That is in addition to global imaging satellites which take high resolution pictures of nearly everywhere. With data science, everyone's life becomes an open book whether they like it or not. While data science can be a powerful tool to help change the world, it must be heavily regulated to make sure that it is used ethically.
  
 Blumenstock suggests that there are several methods through which data science can be used safely. First, he suggests that data science should be used *in tandem* with the tried-and-true methods of face-to-face interviews and surveys. While they cannot be trusted to be effective alone, data science can be a helpful addition to the traditional methods that may provide insight to certain areas. Additionally he believes that data science methods should be tailored to fit the users needs and not just be a single all-powerful program. This would provide it with context that should create more accurate results. Lastly, he believes that there should be a collaboration with the data-scientists, government, and private sector. The private sector can provide resources to help the world, but they need the guidance of the data scientists and the government to know exactly where and how they should do so to be effective. Through this collaboration, data science will be able to intelligently solve the problems of the world in an effective and ethical manner.
