
#15. Resisting Fatalism & The Green Revolution

Resisting fatalism is one of the seven policies that the speaker discussess should be implemented in order for human development to continue. He gives an example of Norman Borloug who improved corn by creating a version that has high yield and was highly resistant to diseases, which was thought to be an impossible characteristic of any corn train. However, he improved on corn by making this strain of corn, creating the "Green Revolution" which fed billions of people and prevented famineThese were generally not characteristics of corn, so he engineered a solution that was against "fate" or rather the expected outcome. While another one of the seven policies was to not engineer specific solutions, resisting fatalism through solutions is an important, possibly essential, policy that allows the impossible to be possible. By creating innovations that go against traditions, solutions towards problems are made that were thought unlikely. Even if some outcomes are considered to be "fatal" or always going to happen, the ideas that are spurred from attempting to reverse fatalism will spawn new ways of thinking or considerations about the situations. 

#13. 

The Emperor was a book written by Ryan Kopuscinksi regarding the final days of Haile Sellasie one of the last leaders of feudal Ethiopia before it was overthrown. It goes over the daily occurences of this dictator of Ehtiopia, showing how he was an omnipotent ruler through enacting significant change on a whim, like promoting and demoting officials an hour a day as if they were characters in a video game. His officials would fear talking about poverty and starvation in the lower class due to fears of being repremanded. This is a story about not a benevolent leader, but someone who ruled for his enjoyment. Countries that have bad leaders do not follow the normal evolutionary and or coevolutionary traits that a normal system should have. In a normal country, each person is an agent in the system and evolve or adapt based on whether certain situations harm or help them. This cannot be done under malevolent dictators such as Haile Sellasie who benefitted and encouraged the failures of the lower class. If the upperclass sees that there is benefit to a current state of the system then they will do all in their power to keep that system state, regardless of if it will prevent overall growth in the economy or political systems. 

